README.md, before:

# Terraform Beginner Bootcamp 2023

## Semantic Versioning :mage:

Given a version number **MAJOR.MINOR.PATCH**, increment the:

This project is going to utilize semantic versioning for its tagging.

[semver.org](https://semver.org/)


The general format:

  **MAJOR.MINOR.PATCH**, eg. `1.0.2`

- **MAJOR** version when you make incompatible API changes
- **MINOR** version when you add functionality in a backward compatible manner
- **PATCH** version when you make backward compatible bug fixes
Additional labels for pre-release and build metadata are available as extensions to the MAJOR.MINOR.PATCH format.


## Install the Terraform CLI

### Considerations with the Terraform CLI changes
The Terraform CLI installation instructions have changed to gpg keyring changes. So we needed to refer to the latest install CLI instructions via Terraform Documentation and change the scripting for install.

[Install Terraform CLI](https://developer.hashicorp.com/terraform/tutorials/aws-get-started/install-cli)


### Considerations for Linux Distrubution
This project is built against Ubuntu.
Please consider checking your Linux Distribution and change accordingly to distrubution needs.  

[How to check OS Version in Linux](https://www.cyberciti.biz/faq/how-to-check-os-version-in-linux-command-line/)

Example of checking OS Version
```
$ cat /etc/os-release

PRETTY_NAME="Ubuntu 22.04.3 LTS"
NAME="Ubuntu"
VERSION_ID="22.04"
VERSION="22.04.3 LTS (Jammy Jellyfish)"
VERSION_CODENAME=jammy
ID=ubuntu
ID_LIKE=debian
HOME_URL="https://www.ubuntu.com/"
SUPPORT_URL="https://help.ubuntu.com/"
BUG_REPORT_URL="https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/"
PRIVACY_POLICY_URL="https://www.ubuntu.com/legal/terms-and-policies/privacy-policy"
UBUNTU_CODENAME=jammy
```

### Refactoring into Bash Scripts 

While fixing the Terraform CLI gpg deprication issues we noticed that bash scripts steps were a considerable amoun more code. So we decided to create a bash script to install the Terraform CLI.

This bash script is located here: [./bin/install_terraform_cli](./bin/install_terraform_cli)

-This will keep the Gitpod Task File ([.gitpod.yml](..gitpod.yml)) tidy.
-This allow us an easier to debug and execute manually Terraform CLI install
-This will allow better portablity for other projects that need to install Terraform CLI.

### Shebang Considerations

A Shebang (pronounced Sha-bang) tells the bash script what program will interpet the script. eg. `#!/bin/bash`

ChatGPT recommended this format for bash: `#!/usr/bin/env bash`

- for portability for different OS distributions
-   will search the user's PATH for the bash executable 

https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Shebang_(Unix)

#### Execution Considerations

When executing the bash script we can use the `./` shorthand notation to excute the bash script.

eg. `./bin/install_terraform_cli`

If we are using a script in .gitpod.yml we need to point the script to a program to interpert it.

eg. `source ./bin/install_terraform_cli`

#### Linux Permissions Considerations

In order to make our bash scripts excutable we need to change linux permission for the file to be executable at the user mode.

```sh
chmod u+x ./bin/install_terraform_cli
```

alternatively:
```sh
chmod 744 ./bin/install_terraform_cli
```

https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Chmod



### Github Lifecycle (Before, Init, Command)

 We need to be careful when using Init because it will not rerun if we restart an existing workspace.


https://www.gitpod.io/docs/configure/workspaces/tasks



### Working With Env Vars (Environment Variables)

#### env command

We can list out all Ennvironment Variables  (Env Vars) using the `env` command

We can filter specific env vars using grep eg. `env | grep AWS_`

#### Setting and Unsetting Env Vars

In the terminal we can set using `export HELLO= 'world`

In the terminal we can unset using  unset HELLO`

We can set an env var temporarily when just running a command 

```sh
HELLO='world' ./bin/print_message
```

Within a bash script we can set env without writing export eg. 

```sh
#!/usr/bin/env bash

HELLO='world'

echo $HELLO
```

#### Printing Vars 

We can print an env var using echo eg. 'echo $HELLO'

### Scoping on Env Vars

When you open up new bash terinals in VSCode it will not be aware of env vars that you set in another window.

If you want Env Vars to persist across all future bash terminals that are open you need to set env vars in your bash profile. eg. `.bash_profile`

#### Persisting Env Vars in Gitpos

We can persist env vars into gitpod by storing them in Gitpod Secrets Storage.

```
gp env HELLO=`world`
```

All future workspaces launched will set the env vars for all bash terminals opened in those workspaces.

You can also set env vars in the `.gitpod.yml` but this can only contain non-sensitve env vars.

Commit message:

#7 refactored AWS CLI into a bash script (#8)

README.md, after:

# Terraform Beginner Bootcamp 2023

## Semantic Versioning :mage:

Given a version number **MAJOR.MINOR.PATCH**, increment the:

This project is going to utilize semantic versioning for its tagging.

[semver.org](https://semver.org/)


The general format:

  **MAJOR.MINOR.PATCH**, eg. `1.0.2`

- **MAJOR** version when you make incompatible API changes
- **MINOR** version when you add functionality in a backward compatible manner
- **PATCH** version when you make backward compatible bug fixes
Additional labels for pre-release and build metadata are available as extensions to the MAJOR.MINOR.PATCH format.


## Install the Terraform CLI

### Considerations with the Terraform CLI changes
The Terraform CLI installation instructions have changed to gpg keyring changes. So we needed to refer to the latest install CLI instructions via Terraform Documentation and change the scripting for install.

[Install Terraform CLI](https://developer.hashicorp.com/terraform/tutorials/aws-get-started/install-cli)


### Considerations for Linux Distrubution
This project is built against Ubuntu.
Please consider checking your Linux Distribution and change accordingly to distrubution needs.  

[How to check OS Version in Linux](https://www.cyberciti.biz/faq/how-to-check-os-version-in-linux-command-line/)

Example of checking OS Version
```
$ cat /etc/os-release

PRETTY_NAME="Ubuntu 22.04.3 LTS"
NAME="Ubuntu"
VERSION_ID="22.04"
VERSION="22.04.3 LTS (Jammy Jellyfish)"
VERSION_CODENAME=jammy
ID=ubuntu
ID_LIKE=debian
HOME_URL="https://www.ubuntu.com/"
SUPPORT_URL="https://help.ubuntu.com/"
BUG_REPORT_URL="https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/"
PRIVACY_POLICY_URL="https://www.ubuntu.com/legal/terms-and-policies/privacy-policy"
UBUNTU_CODENAME=jammy
```

### Refactoring into Bash Scripts 

While fixing the Terraform CLI gpg deprication issues we noticed that bash scripts steps were a considerable amoun more code. So we decided to create a bash script to install the Terraform CLI.

This bash script is located here: [./bin/install_terraform_cli](./bin/install_terraform_cli)

-This will keep the Gitpod Task File ([.gitpod.yml](..gitpod.yml)) tidy.
-This allow us an easier to debug and execute manually Terraform CLI install
-This will allow better portablity for other projects that need to install Terraform CLI.

### Shebang Considerations

A Shebang (pronounced Sha-bang) tells the bash script what program will interpet the script. eg. `#!/bin/bash`

ChatGPT recommended this format for bash: `#!/usr/bin/env bash`

- for portability for different OS distributions
-   will search the user's PATH for the bash executable 

https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Shebang_(Unix)

#### Execution Considerations

When executing the bash script we can use the `./` shorthand notation to excute the bash script.

eg. `./bin/install_terraform_cli`

If we are using a script in .gitpod.yml we need to point the script to a program to interpert it.

eg. `source ./bin/install_terraform_cli`

#### Linux Permissions Considerations

In order to make our bash scripts excutable we need to change linux permission for the file to be executable at the user mode.

```sh
chmod u+x ./bin/install_terraform_cli
```

alternatively:
```sh
chmod 744 ./bin/install_terraform_cli
```

https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Chmod



### Github Lifecycle (Before, Init, Command)

 We need to be careful when using Init because it will not rerun if we restart an existing workspace.


https://www.gitpod.io/docs/configure/workspaces/tasks



7-refactor-aws-cli-script
### AWS CLI Installation

AWS CLI is installed for the project via the bash script. [`./bin/install_aws_cli`](./bin/install_aws_cli)

[Getting Started Install (AWS CLI)](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/cli/latest/userguide/getting-started-install.html)

[AWS CLI Env Vars](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/cli/latest/userguide/cli-configure-envvars.html)

We can check if our AWS credentials is configured correctly by running the following AWS CLI command:
```sh
aws sts get-caller-identity
```

If it is successful you should see a json payload return that looks like this:

```json
{
    "UserId": "AIDBAAMPLEUSERID",
    "Account": "123456789012",
    "Arn": "arn:aws:iam::123456789012:user/TerraformAdmin"
}
```

We'll need to generate AWS CLI creditentials from IAM User in order to use the AWS CLI.
=======
### Working With Env Vars (Environment Variables)

#### env command

We can list out all Ennvironment Variables  (Env Vars) using the `env` command

We can filter specific env vars using grep eg. `env | grep AWS_`

#### Setting and Unsetting Env Vars

In the terminal we can set using `export HELLO= 'world`

In the terminal we can unset using  unset HELLO`

We can set an env var temporarily when just running a command 

```sh
HELLO='world' ./bin/print_message
```

Within a bash script we can set env without writing export eg. 

```sh
#!/usr/bin/env bash

HELLO='world'

echo $HELLO
```

#### Printing Vars 

We can print an env var using echo eg. 'echo $HELLO'

### Scoping on Env Vars

When you open up new bash terinals in VSCode it will not be aware of env vars that you set in another window.

If you want Env Vars to persist across all future bash terminals that are open you need to set env vars in your bash profile. eg. `.bash_profile`

#### Persisting Env Vars in Gitpos

We can persist env vars into gitpod by storing them in Gitpod Secrets Storage.

```
gp env HELLO=`world`
```

All future workspaces launched will set the env vars for all bash terminals opened in those workspaces.

You can also set env vars in the `.gitpod.yml` but this can only contain non-sensitve env vars.
